In this video I'll introduce you to type 1 and Type 2 hypervisor and explain the differences between
the two.
So let's start with a type 1 hypervisor a type 1 hypervisor is often called a bare metal hypervisor.
This is a hypervisor where you'll go out and buy a physical server.
And then you'll go ahead and install the hypervisor directly on that physical server.
So that's why we call it a bare metal hypervisor.
It's essentially the operating system that runs on that physical server and it provides this hypervisor
capability so that multiple Vienna's can run on top of the hypervisor and there's different options
out there for type 1 hypervisor.
Where we have V.M. where ESX II is the most commonly utilized hypervisor.
We have Microsoft Hyper-V and we have set your ex zens server.
There are all different and there are other options as well.
There's little red hat options and all sorts of other hypervisor options out there as well.
These are probably the big three at this point.
And they all sort of work the same way you buy a physical server.
You could even take like a CD drive if you want to do it the old fashioned way.
Put your CD drive in.
Boot up that physical server and install ESX II or Hyper-V.
So that's what you type 1 hypervisor is.
And in the case of a type 1 hypervisor the software whether it's ESX I Hyper-V zens server it has direct
access to the physical hardware and can grant that hardware to the virtual machines.
With a type 2 hypervisor the hypervisor does not have direct access to the hardware.
So what you're going to do with a type 2 hypervisor is you're going to buy a computer and you're going
to install some operating system.
Maybe it's Windows or Mac.
And after I've installed that operating system on my computer I can then install VM Ware player or VM
or workstation or Parallels for Mac.
On top of my existing operating system and then I can run multiple virtual machines within VM Ware player
within VM or workstation within parallels for Mac.
The big difference here is that the hypervisor is running on top of another operating system.
So if you think about it from the perspective of my Reems with a type 1 hypervisor why have my virtual
machine.
And then we have the hypervisor and then we have the hardware and the VM on top hypervisor in the middle
hardware on the bottom and there's only one layer that the virtual machine needs to go through in order
to access that physical hardware.
Whereas with the type 2 hypervisor you have the VM on top then you have the hypervisor let's say VM
or workstation then you have another operating system underneath that.
And then finally you have the hardware.
And so a type 2 hypervisor isn't really the sort of hypervisor we're going to find in a data center.
It's something that somebody might run on their computer to create a lab environment for example and
as a matter of fact I have an entire home lab course on you to me that covers how to install VMWare
workstation on top of Windows and then create a VSE fare home lap and that's one of the common use cases
for VM or workstation or if you want to you could install Windows install VM or workstation on top of
Windows and then create yourself a virtual machine that you can do things like take snapshots of.
So a type 2 hypervisor is one that's installed on top of an existing operating system whereas type 1.
Those are a bare metal hypervisor.
And those are the types you typically see inside of a data center.